remove Vintage code and add CF templates for capa resources (#97)
giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites: README.md

# giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites

This repo contains Cloud Formation templates and Terraform modules to prepare AWS accounts to run Giant Swarm clusters.

# Cluster API

## Before starting

Make sure to adjust AWS account limits according to [these docs](https://docs.giantswarm.io/getting-started/cloud-provider-accounts/cluster-api/aws/#limits).

For Cluster API take a look at these two modules in this repository:

1. [admin-role](./admin-role) which creates a role and a policy for our staff to be able to operate the infrastructure created by our automation in case of failures.
2. [capa-controller-role](./capa-controller-role) which creates the role and policies that the controllers assume to create and manage the kubernetes clusters.

## 1. admin-role

For all AWS accounts part of the platform  Giant Swarm staff need to have access in order to debug and
manage and operate the infrastructure. To do so, please use one of the following methods to create the necessary role and policy in your AWS account.

### AWS CloudFormation template

> You can execute directly the CloudFormation template clicking [here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://my-s3-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/giantswarm-template.yaml&stackName=GiantSwarmAdminRoleBootstrap) or uploading the [template file](./admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml) when creating a new stack in the AWS console.

Author: @paurosello I was thinking in hosting the templates in an existing bucket in our root account. Do we already have one for this purpose? I can add GH action to upload everytime there is a change here

Reviewer: yeah I created one there

Reviewer: https://cf-stacks-giantswarm.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com

 but I dont see it on the root account, will check if it was on a MC account or we can simply create a different bucket

Reviewer: can't find it :(

Reviewer: also, once we have the S3 bucket and the automation we might be able to use something like https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/create-reusable-transform-function-snippets-and-add-to-your-template-with-aws-include-transform.html

This would allow us to use the same role definitions in terraform and cloudformation to avoid having to maintain both

Author: I read it but I dont see how it will work TBH. Anyway it is a future step. I will see f I find that bucket

Author: I created a bucket in root account called `cf-templates-giantswarm`. I updated the link and now it is launching the stack creation but I don't see parameters from URL being parsed, can you take a look plz?

> You can execute directly the CloudFormation template just clicking [the admin role stack template](https://eu-central-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=s3://cf-templates-giantswarm/admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml&stackName=GiantSwarmAdminRoleBootstrap&&param_AdminRoleName=GiantSwarmAdmin) or uploading the [template file](./admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml) when creating a new stack in the AWS console.

Author: @paurosello I created a bucket in the root account called `cf-templates-giantswarm`. I updated the link, and now it is launching the stack creation, but I don't see parameters from the URL being parsed. Can you take a look, plz?

(I could not find your s3 bucket in any of our accounts 🤷 but it said the name is taken)

> You can execute directly the CloudFormation template just clicking [the admin role stack template](https://eu-central-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=s3://cf-templates-giantswarm/admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml&stackName=GiantSwarmAdminRoleBootstrap&&param_AdminRoleName=GiantSwarmAdmin) or uploading the [template file](./admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml) when creating a new stack in the AWS console.

Author: ```suggestion
You can execute the CloudFormation template directly by clicking [the admin role stack template](https://eu-central-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=https://cf-templates-giantswarm.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml&stackName=GiantSwarmAdminRoleBootstrap&&param_AdminRoleName=GiantSwarmAdmin) or uploading the [template file](./admin-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml) when creating a new stack in the AWS console.
```

You will be asked for the following parameters:

- `AdminRoleName`: The name of the role that will be created. Default is `GiantSwarmAdmin`. You dont need to change this unless you have a specific requirement.

Review the changes and click `Create stack`. In case of any error, please check the `Events` tab in the CloudFormation console and report the error to the Giant Swarm staff.

### Terraform

#### Requirements

- `terraform` installed
- working AWS credentials set to the desired target account
- AWS region has to be set  either via aws profile or via env `AWS_REGION`

### Adjust variables

- `principal_arns_giantswarm_root_account` - can be adjusted to be more strict and specify user which will assume the role. Default is `arn:aws:iam::084190472784:root`. You dent need to change this unless you have a specific requirement.
- `admin_role_name` - can be adjusted to be more strict and specify role name. You dent need to change this unless you have a specific requirement.

### Execution

```
terraform init .
terraform apply -var="admin_role_name=GiantSwarmAdmin
```

The created role ARN needs to be supplied to Giant Swarm.

> ## 2. capa-controller-role

Author: I have decided to bring all explanation here since now vintage is gone and IMO is simple

In the AWS account where you plan to run the management cluster, you need to create a role that the Cluster API controllers will assume to create and manage workload clusters and all infrastructure resources.

### AWS CloudFormation template

> You can execute directly the CloudFormation template just clocking the [capa controller role stack template](https://eu-central-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=s3://cf-templates-giantswarm/capa-controller-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml&stackName=CAPAControllerRoleBootstrap&param_InstallationName=CHANGE_THIS_FOR_THE_INSTALLATION_NAME&param_ManagementClusterAccountID=MANAGEMENT_CLUSTER_ACCOUNT_ID) or uploading the [template file](./capa-controller-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml) when creating a new stack in the AWS console.

Author: ```suggestion
You can execute directly the CloudFormation template by clocking the [capa controller role stack template](https://eu-central-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=https://cf-templates-giantswarm.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/capa-controller-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml&stackName=CAPAControllerRoleBootstrap&param_InstallationName=CHANGE_THIS_FOR_THE_INSTALLATION_NAME&param_ManagementClusterAccountID=MANAGEMENT_CLUSTER_ACCOUNT_ID) or uploading the [template file](./capa-controller-role/cloud-formation-template.yaml) when creating a new stack in the AWS console.
```
